Quantarhei is a package of programs and tools and a little more. It does not want to be a set of libraries (in which case you would handle all communication between the libraries yourself) nor a black-box program (in which case you would just input parameters of predefined computational tasks). Quantarhei wants to take a middle way, and (ideally) it aspires to be an open quantum system's language based on Python. 

The consequence of wanting to be a language is that you rarely would handle data arrays, representing your physical quantities, directly. Your rather use objects representing such data, and supply various input parameters and options for their creation (like in a black-box program). Then you build a program flow around these objects like you would do if you wrote your program using some lower level language (C or Fortran) and some set of libraries. 

The main aim of Quantarhei is to lift of you the (often heavy) burden of setting up physical quantities in correct units, correct and consistent representations and gluing it together with standard numerics such as Fast Fourier Transform and differential equations solvers.  

Python is great in gluing codes written in different languages together. While Quantarhei also wants to supply a fast numerical code, it allows you to plug-in your own code in C or Fortran. Say, you only want to use Quantarhei to create your excitonic Hamiltonian, and use it as an input for your own program. There two ways to do it. Either you write the Hamiltonian matrix out and read it by your program (which can be started by a Python script calling Quantarhei first), or you can write an interface between your program and Quantarhei. The choice always remains with you. We will try making integration of your code in Quantarhei as easy as possible.
